React Toolbar content and feedback updates (#220)
patternfly/training-scenarios: react-components/toolbar-filter/step5.md

> One particular type of Data toolbar item is called the `DataToolbarFilter`. When used, selected filters are displayed in chip groups below the toolbar. Placing any `DataToolbarFilter` inside of a toggle group makes the toolbar responsive.

Reviewer: lowercase for data

Using a `DataToolbarFilter` requires three properties. First is a managed array of selected filters called `chips` as strings or ReactNodes. It also requires an `onDelete` callback function to be executed whenever the user deletes a selected filter chip. Lastly, it requires a `categoryName` which will be used to label the chip group.

> 1) **Define the required `onDelete` function to be passed to the DataToolbarFilters**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1) **Define the required `onDelete` function to be passed to the `DataToolbarFilters`**
```

> Add it to the ToolbarDemoApp class below the `onSelect` function definition in the `ToolbarDemoApp` class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the function to the ToolbarDemoApp class. Make sure to add it below the `onSelect` function definition in the `ToolbarDemoApp` class.
```

  if (type) {
    this.setState((prevState) =&gt; {
      prevState.filters[type.toLowerCase()] = prevState.filters[type.toLowerCase()].filter(s =&gt; s !== id);
      return {
        filters: prevState.filters,
      }
    });
  } else {
    this.setState({
      filters: {
        name: [],
        risk: [],
        status: [],
      }
    })
  }
};
</pre>

2) **Locate the following three `DataToolbarItems` inside the `DataToolbarToggleGroup`:**

<pre class="file">
&lt;DataToolbarItem variant=&quot;search-filter&quot;&gt;
  &lt;Input value=&quot;&quot; id=&quot;step2Input&quot; ariaLabel=&quot;Step 2 input&quot; /&gt;
&lt;/DataToolbarItem&gt;
&lt;DataToolbarGroup variant=&quot;filter-group&quot;&gt;
  &lt;DataToolbarItem&gt;
    &lt;CheckboxSelect
      onSelect={this.onSelect}
      type=&quot;Status&quot;
      selections={filters.status}
      options={statusOptions}
    /&gt;
  &lt;/DataToolbarItem&gt;
  &lt;DataToolbarItem&gt;
    &lt;CheckboxSelect
      onSelect={this.onSelect}
      type=&quot;Risk&quot;
      selections={filters.risk}
      options={riskOptions}
    /&gt;
  &lt;/DataToolbarItem&gt;
&lt;/DataToolbarGroup&gt;
</pre>

> 3) **Replace each of the three `DataToolbarItems` inside the `DataToolbarToggleGroup` with a `DataToolbarFilter`**

Reviewer: This has potential to confuse the user, add an example of what it should look like at this step

Author: hm.... there will be no visible change...

Author: oh I see, like a code snippet. okay

> 4) **Add a `chips` property to each of the `DataToolbarFilter`**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4) **Add a `chips` property to each of the `DataToolbarFilter` components.**
```

Each of the `DataToolbarFilter` components requires a `chips` property. In this case, the state managed filters array's properties can serve as the `chips` property for each `DataToolbarFilter`. 

> * In this case, the first `DataToolbarFilter` (containing a text input) should have the property `chips={filters.name}`. 

Reviewer: Since these are actions, I think put them in a) b) c)

* The second `DataToolbarFilter` (containing the status filter) should have the property `chips={filters.status}`. 
* The third `DataToolbarFilter` (containing the risk filter) should have the property `chips={filters.risk}`.

5) **Pass an appropriate label as the `categoryName` property to each `DataToolbarFilter`**

> * In this case, the first `DataToolbarFilter` (containing a text input) should have the property `categoryName="Name"`. 

Reviewer: Same comment as above, a) b) c)

* The second `DataToolbarFilter` (containing the status filter) should have the property `categoryName="Status"`. 
* The third `DataToolbarFilter` (containing the risk filter) should have the property `categoryName="Risk"`.

> 6) **Pass the onDelete function as the `deleteChip` property to each `DataToolbarFilter`**

Reviewer: Give an example here of what this looks like:

<DataToolbarFilter deleteChip={this.onDelete}>

Author: I have a code snippet after step 6. I will reword the next line to say 'Once steps 4, 5, and 6 are completed, the contents of the `DataToolbarToggleGroup` should appear as follows:"

Once completed, the contents of the `DataToolbarToggleGroup` should appear as follows:

<pre class="file">
&lt;DataToolbarFilter chips={filters.name} deleteChip={this.onDelete} categoryName=&quot;Name&quot;&gt;
  &lt;Input id=&quot;searchInput&quot; search={this.onSearch} ariaLabel=&quot;Search input&quot; /&gt;
&lt;/DataToolbarFilter&gt;
&lt;DataToolbarGroup variant=&quot;filter-group&quot;&gt;
  &lt;DataToolbarFilter chips={filters.status} deleteChip={this.onDelete} categoryName=&quot;Status&quot;&gt;
    &lt;CheckboxSelect
      onSelect={this.onSelect}
      type=&quot;Status&quot;
      selections={filters.status}
      options={statusOptions}
    /&gt;
  &lt;/DataToolbarFilter&gt;
  &lt;DataToolbarFilter chips={filters.risk} deleteChip={this.onDelete} categoryName=&quot;Risk&quot;&gt;
    &lt;CheckboxSelect
      onSelect={this.onSelect}
      type=&quot;Risk&quot;
      selections={filters.risk}
      options={riskOptions}
    /&gt;
  &lt;/DataToolbarFilter&gt;
&lt;/DataToolbarGroup&gt;
</pre>

7) **Experiment with two optional properties passed to `DataToolbar`**

Two props can be optionally added to the top level `DataToolbar` component when using a `DataToolbarFilter`.

> * If a `clearAllFilters` event handler is passed to `DataToolbar`, a 'Clear All Filters' action will appear alongside the applied filters chip groups.

Reviewer: Put these in a) and b)

      options={riskOptions}
    /&gt;
  &lt;/DataToolbarFilter&gt;
&lt;/DataToolbarGroup&gt;
</pre>

4) **Add a `chips` property to each of the `DataToolbarFilter` components**

Each of the `DataToolbarFilter` components requires a `chips` property. In this case, the state managed filters array's properties can serve as the `chips` property for each `DataToolbarFilter`. 

a) In this case, the first `DataToolbarFilter` (containing a text input) should have the property `chips={filters.name}`. 
b) The second `DataToolbarFilter` (containing the status filter) should have the property `chips={filters.status}`. 
c) The third `DataToolbarFilter` (containing the risk filter) should have the property `chips={filters.risk}`.

5) **Pass an appropriate label as the `categoryName` property to each `DataToolbarFilter`**

a) In this case, the first `DataToolbarFilter` (containing a text input) should have the property `categoryName="Name"`. 
b) The second `DataToolbarFilter` (containing the status filter) should have the property `categoryName="Status"`. 
c) The third `DataToolbarFilter` (containing the risk filter) should have the property `categoryName="Risk"`.

> 6) **Pass the onDelete function as the `deleteChip` property to each `DataToolbarFilter`**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6) <strong>Pass the onDelete function as the `deleteChip` property to each `DataToolbarFilter`</strong>
```

Once steps 4, 5, and 6 are completed, the contents of the `DataToolbarToggleGroup` should appear as follows:

<pre class="file">
&lt;DataToolbarFilter chips={filters.name} deleteChip={this.onDelete} categoryName=&quot;Name&quot;&gt;
  &lt;Input id=&quot;searchInput&quot; search={this.onSearch} ariaLabel=&quot;Search input&quot; /&gt;
&lt;/DataToolbarFilter&gt;
&lt;DataToolbarGroup variant=&quot;filter-group&quot;&gt;
  &lt;DataToolbarFilter chips={filters.status} deleteChip={this.onDelete} categoryName=&quot;Status&quot;&gt;
    &lt;CheckboxSelect
      onSelect={this.onSelect}
      type=&quot;Status&quot;
      selections={filters.status}
      options={statusOptions}
    /&gt;
  &lt;/DataToolbarFilter&gt;
  &lt;DataToolbarFilter chips={filters.risk} deleteChip={this.onDelete} categoryName=&quot;Risk&quot;&gt;
    &lt;CheckboxSelect
      onSelect={this.onSelect}
      type=&quot;Risk&quot;
      selections={filters.risk}
      options={riskOptions}
    /&gt;
  &lt;/DataToolbarFilter&gt;
&lt;/DataToolbarGroup&gt;
</pre>

7) **Experiment with two optional properties passed to `DataToolbar`**

> Two props can be optionally added to the top level `DataToolbar` component when using a `DataToolbarFilter`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Two props can be optionally added to the top-level `DataToolbar` component when using a `DataToolbarFilter`.
```

a) If a `clearAllFilters` event handler is passed to `DataToolbar`, a 'Clear All Filters' action will appear alongside the applied filters chip groups.
b) If a `collapseListedFiltersBreakpoint` is passed to `DataToolbar`, the chip groups will collapse to a summary message at the passed in breakpoint, making the applied filters chip groups more responsive.

Add the following code to the `DataToolbar` to see optional props in action.

<pre class="file" data-target="clipboard">
clearAllFilters={this.onDelete} collapseListedFiltersBreakpoint=&quot;xl&quot;
</pre>

> Take some time to play with the toolbar to see how it responds to changes in viewport size and the number of filters applied.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<strong> Note:</strong>Take some time to play with the toolbar to see how it responds to changes in viewport size and the number of filters applied.
```

  &lt;Input id=&quot;searchInput&quot; search={this.onSearch} ariaLabel=&quot;Search input&quot; /&gt;
&lt;/DataToolbarFilter&gt;
&lt;DataToolbarGroup variant=&quot;filter-group&quot;&gt;
  &lt;DataToolbarFilter chips={filters.status} deleteChip={this.onDelete} categoryName=&quot;Status&quot;&gt;
    &lt;CheckboxSelect
      onSelect={this.onSelect}
      type=&quot;Status&quot;
      selections={filters.status}
      options={statusOptions}
    /&gt;
  &lt;/DataToolbarFilter&gt;
  &lt;DataToolbarFilter chips={filters.risk} deleteChip={this.onDelete} categoryName=&quot;Risk&quot;&gt;
    &lt;CheckboxSelect
      onSelect={this.onSelect}
      type=&quot;Risk&quot;
      selections={filters.risk}
      options={riskOptions}
    /&gt;
  &lt;/DataToolbarFilter&gt;
&lt;/DataToolbarGroup&gt;
</pre>

7) <strong>Experiment with two optional properties passed to `DataToolbar`</strong>

Two props can be optionally added to the top-level `DataToolbar` component when using a `DataToolbarFilter`.

a) If a `clearAllFilters` event handler is passed to `DataToolbar`, a 'Clear All Filters' action will appear alongside the applied filters chip groups.

> b) If a `collapseListedFiltersBreakpoint` is passed to `DataToolbar`, the chip groups will collapse to a summary message at the passed in breakpoint, making the applied filters chip groups more responsive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
b) <strong>Pass a`collapseListedFiltersBreakpoint` to `DataToolbar`.</strong>

The chip groups will collapse to a summary message at the passed in breakpoint, making the applied filters chip groups more responsive.
```
